Add the `osu! wiki` article, information on `Maintenance`, and `List of maintainers` (#6062)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/osu!_wiki/en.md

# osu! wiki

The **osu! wiki** is an open-source knowledge database written and maintaned by [volunteer contributors](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/graphs/contributors). It contains a wide range of information on topic related to osu!, its community, and related activities and concepts. The wiki serves as an official source of information and is considered a documentation of the osu! history.

All discussions which cover the wiki in general, its development, and changes to articles, happen in the `#osu-wiki` channel of the official [osu!dev Discord server](/wiki/osu!dev_Discord_server). To learn how you can help the osu! wiki, read the following articles:

- [Contribution guide](/wiki/osu!_wiki_Contribution_Guide)

> - [osu! wiki maintenance](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance)

Reviewer: To be the same as the top (remove prefix).
```suggestion
- [Maintenance](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance)
```

# osu! wiki

> The **osu! wiki** is an open-source knowledge database written and maintained by [volunteer contributors](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/graphs/contributors). It contains a wide range of information on topics related to osu!, its community, and related activities and concepts. The wiki serves as an official source of information and is considered a documentation of the osu! history.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **osu! wiki** is an open-source knowledge database written and maintained by [volunteer contributors](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/graphs/contributors). It contains a wide range of information on topics related to osu!, its community, and related activities and concepts. The wiki serves as an official source of information and is considered as a documentation of the osu! history.
```

> The **osu! wiki** is an open-source knowledge database written and maintained by [volunteer contributors](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/graphs/contributors). It contains a wide range of information on topics related to osu!, its community, and related activities and concepts. The wiki serves as an official source of information and is considered as a documentation of the osu! history.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **osu! wiki** is an open-source knowledge database written and maintained by [volunteer contributors](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/graphs/contributors). It contains a wide range of information on topics related to osu!, its community, and related activities and concepts. The wiki serves as an official source of information and is considered as a documentation of osu! history.
```

Author: odd question, but why?

Reviewer 3: just style/may sound better (for instance "the history" on its own may sound incomplete in sentence); could otherwise write "the history of osu!"

> All discussions which cover the wiki in general, its development, and changes to articles, happen in the `#osu-wiki` channel of the official [osu!dev Discord server](/wiki/osu!dev_Discord_server). To learn how you can help the osu! wiki, check the following articles:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All discussions that cover the wiki in general, its development, and changes to articles, happen in the `#osu-wiki` channel of the official [osu!dev Discord server](/wiki/osu!dev_Discord_server). To learn how you can help the osu! wiki, check the following articles:
```

- [Contribution guide](/wiki/osu!_wiki_Contribution_Guide)
- [Maintenance](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance)

## History

> *See also: [History of the osu! wiki](/wiki/History_of_osu!/osu!_wiki)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*Main page: [History of the osu! wiki](/wiki/History_of_osu!/osu!_wiki)*
```

> The [first attempts](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/posts/1175876) of creating a structured knowledge base are dated 2011, when [peppy](/wiki/People/peppy) has set up a MediaWiki instance for anyone willing to participate. Over the years, the maintenance and operation of MediaWiki has been proven difficult and toilsome, and in [August 26, 2016](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/218678017659109376) peppy and a team of volunteers have begun the process of migrating the osu! wiki to GitHub, where it resides to this day. The wiki has then been integrated into the new osu! website and received technical and visual updates critical for good user experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [first attempts](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/posts/1175876) of creating a structured knowledge base are dated to 2011, when [peppy](/wiki/People/peppy) set up a [MediaWiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MediaWiki) instance for anyone willing to participate. Over the years, maintenance and operation of the MediaWiki has been proven difficult and toilsome, and in [August 26, 2016](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/218678017659109376) peppy and a team of volunteers began the process of migrating the osu! wiki to GitHub, where it resides to this day. The wiki has since been integrated into the new osu! website and received technical and visual updates critical for good user experience.
```

Author: sigh. thanks!

> The [first attempts](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/posts/1175876) of creating a structured knowledge base are dated to 2011, when [peppy](/wiki/People/peppy) set up a [MediaWiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MediaWiki) instance for anyone willing to participate. Over the years, maintenance and operation of the MediaWiki has been proven difficult and toilsome, and in [August 26, 2016](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/218678017659109376) peppy and a team of volunteers began the process of migrating the osu! wiki to GitHub, where it resides to this day. The wiki has since been integrated into the new osu! website and received technical and visual updates critical for good user experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [first attempts](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/forums/posts/1175876) of creating a structured knowledge base are dated back to 2011, when [peppy](/wiki/People/peppy) set up a [MediaWiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MediaWiki) instance for anyone willing to participate. Over the years, maintenance and operation of the MediaWiki has been proven difficult and toilsome, and in [August 26, 2016](https://discord.com/channels/188630481301012481/218677502141399041/218678017659109376) peppy and a team of volunteers began the process of migrating the osu! wiki to GitHub, where it resides to this day. The wiki has since been integrated into the new osu! website and received technical and visual updates critical for good user experience.
```

## Structure

The gateway to the osu! wiki is the [main page](/wiki/Main_Page), which is divided into several high-level categories, each having a general description and including a list of important articles. The articles not listed on the main page, which are typically more specific, can be reached either from other pages using inline links, or through the search feature of the website.

> An individual article describes a single term or concept and gives a general overview on adjacent topics. To better illustrate the subject, it is divided into subsections covering different parts of the term. It may also include relevant screenshots or other visual explanations, or link to other articles on topic<!-- TODO: via the use of infoboxes. uncomment this when they are ready (https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/5440) -->.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An individual article describes a single term or concept and gives a general overview on adjacent topics. To better illustrate the subject, it is divided into subsections covering different parts of the term. It may also include relevant screenshots or other visual explanations, or link to other articles on topic.<!-- TODO: via the use of infoboxes. uncomment this when they are ready (https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/issues/5440) -->
```

> For most articles, translations are available. They are done by the community members themselves, and the choice of language is only limited by a [list of languages](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales) supported by the website itself.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Translations to different languages are available for most articles. They are made by the community members themselves, and the choice of language is only limited by a [list of languages](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales) supported by the website itself.
```

> Translations to different languages are available for most articles. They are made by the community members themselves, and the choice of language is only limited by a [list of languages](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales) supported by the website itself.

Reviewer 3: had an additional small think over this

```suggestion
Translations in different languages are available for most articles. They are made by the community members themselves, and the choice of language is only limited by a [list of languages](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales) supported by the website itself.
```

> Translations in different languages are available for most articles. They are made by the community members themselves, and the choice of language is only limited by a [list of languages](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales) supported by the website itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Translations in different languages are available for some articles. They are made by the community members themselves, and the choice of language is only limited by the [list of languages](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria/Formatting#locales) supported by the website itself.
```
"most" seems like a huge exaggeration smh 👀

Author: you're not wrong..

## Model

> The osu! wiki is built around the concept of accessibility: edits and translations are encouraged and may be done by anyone capable and knowledgeable. The data for articles is stored in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki) and updated by contributors through [use of pull requests](/wiki/osu!_wiki_Contribution_Guide), which then are reviewed and merged by the [wiki maintainers](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance/List_of_maintainers).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The osu! wiki is built around the concept of accessibility: edits and translations are encouraged and may be done by anyone capable and knowledgeable. The data for articles is stored in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki) and updated by contributors through the [use of pull requests](/wiki/osu!_wiki_Contribution_Guide), which then are reviewed and merged by the [wiki maintainers](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance/List_of_maintainers).
```

> The osu! wiki is built around the concept of accessibility: edits and translations are encouraged and may be done by anyone capable and knowledgeable. The data for articles is stored in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki) and updated by contributors through the [use of pull requests](/wiki/osu!_wiki_Contribution_Guide), which then are reviewed and merged by the [wiki maintainers](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance/List_of_maintainers).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The osu! wiki is built around the concept of accessibility: edits and translations are encouraged and may be done by anyone capable and knowledgeable. The data for articles is stored in a [GitHub repository](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki) and updated by contributors through the [use of pull requests](/wiki/osu!_wiki_Contribution_Guide), which are then reviewed and merged by the [wiki maintainers](/wiki/osu!_wiki/Maintenance/List_of_maintainers).
```

> The articles are formatted using [GitHub-flavoured Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/). Additionally, the website engine implements custom features, which are crucial for the wiki as a whole, such as redirects, front matter, or formatting improvements<!-- TODO: article on custom features of the wiki? it could help us ease the ASC a bit as well -->.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The articles are formatted using [GitHub-flavoured Markdown](https://help.github.com/articles/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/). Additionally, the website engine implements custom features crucial for the wiki as a whole, such as redirects, front matter, or formatting improvements.<!-- TODO: article on custom features of the wiki? it could help us ease the ASC a bit as well -->
```

> Articles are composed according to the [styling criteria](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria) of the osu! wiki, which means they are written in a neutral language and follow common formatting and design rules. Some informational articles serve as a list of commonly asked questions (FAQ) on the topic and use informal language. Translations follow the content parity principle and comply with the same formatting and writing rules.

Reviewer 3: perhaps it's best to use the actual term when also including its acronym

also note that other languages can have different grammar and punctuation rules. some formatting things are global (like markdown), but i'm pretty sure the writing part is locale-specific

```suggestion
Articles are composed according to the [styling criteria](/wiki/Article_styling_criteria) of the osu! wiki, which means they are written in a neutral language and follow common formatting and design rules. Some informational articles serve as a list of frequently asked questions (FAQ) on the topic and use informal language. Translations follow the content parity principle and comply with the same formatting rules.
```

Author: absolutely. what I was referring to is *some* parts of `Writing`, like the tone, but that probably would be and odd thing to cover here

Despite having the *wiki* suffix in its name, the osu! wiki doesn't fully satisfy [the Wiki concept](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wiki):

> - Users are encouraged to improve existing articles and create new ones, but basic knowledge of [GitHub](https://github.com) is expected, which raises the threshold necessary for entry;
> - All changes to the osu! wiki are pre-moderated and undergo the review process, where a contributor is expected to collaborate with the wiki maintainers.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Users are encouraged to improve existing articles and create new ones, but basic knowledge of [GitHub](https://github.com) is expected, which raises the threshold necessary for entry.
- All changes to the osu! wiki are pre-moderated and undergo a review process, where a contributor is expected to collaborate with the wiki maintainers and respond to feedback.
```

## Licence

> The majority of content in the osu!wiki is licensed under [CC-BY-NC 4.0](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/blob/master/LICENCE.md)—in general, the materials of the wiki may be used in a non-commercial manner (see the [quick summary](https://tldrlegal.com/license/creative-commons-attribution-noncommercial-4.0-international-(cc-by-nc-4.0))). Some content may be covered by different third party licences, which will then be cited local to it and override the global licence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The majority of content in the osu! wiki is licensed under [CC-BY-NC 4.0](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/blob/master/LICENCE.md). This means that in general, the materials of the wiki may be used in a non-commercial manner (see the [quick summary](https://tldrlegal.com/license/creative-commons-attribution-noncommercial-4.0-international-(cc-by-nc-4.0))). Some content may be covered by different third party licences, which will then be cited local to it and override the global licence.
```

- Users are encouraged to improve existing articles and create new ones, but basic knowledge of [GitHub](https://github.com) is expected, which raises the threshold necessary for entry;
- All changes to the osu! wiki are pre-moderated and undergo the review process, where a contributor is expected to collaborate with the wiki maintainers.

## Licence

The majority of content in the osu!wiki is licensed under [CC-BY-NC 4.0](https://github.com/ppy/osu-wiki/blob/master/LICENCE.md)—in general, the materials of the wiki may be used in a non-commercial manner (see the [quick summary](https://tldrlegal.com/license/creative-commons-attribution-noncommercial-4.0-international-(cc-by-nc-4.0))). Some content may be covered by different third party licences, which will then be cited local to it and override the global licence.

> The "osu!" or "ppy" branding is *exempt from this* and is protected by trademark law. For information on use of these terms, [contact us](mailto:contact@ppy.sh).

Reviewer 4: exempt doesn't seem like the correct terminology. it's not really exempt, just has addition clauses. probably best to copy what's mentioned on the main readme if you want to mention that here?

Author: yeah
